website/integrations: add komodo (#14790)
goauthentik/authentik: website/integrations/services/komodo/index.mdx

---
title: Integrate with Komodo
sidebar_label: Komodo
support_level: community
---

## What is Komodo

> > Komodo is a web app to provide structure for managing your servers, builds, deployments, and automated procedures.

Reviewer: I'd dare even say:
```suggestion
> Komodo is a web-based application designed to organize and streamline the management of servers, builds, deployments, and automated tasks.
```

:::

## authentik configuration

To support the integration of Komodo with authentik, you need to create an application/provider pair in authentik.

### Create an application and provider in authentik

1. Log in to authentik as an administrator and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Applications** > **Applications** and click **Create with Provider** to create an application and provider pair. (Alternatively you can first create a provider separately, then create the application and connect it with the provider.)

    - **Application**: provide a descriptive name, an optional group for the type of application, the policy engine mode, and optional UI settings.
    - **Choose a Provider type**: select **OAuth2/OpenID Connect** as the provider type.
    - **Configure the Provider**: provide a name (or accept the auto-provided name), the authorization flow to use for this provider, and the following required configurations.
        - Note the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** values because they will be required later.
        - Set a `Strict` redirect URI to `https://komodo.company/auth/oidc/callback`.
        - Select any available signing key.

>     - **Configure Bindings** _(optional)_: you can create a [binding](/docs/add-secure-apps/flows-stages/bindings/) (policy, group, or user) to manage the listing and access to applications on a user's **My applications** page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **Configure Bindings** _(optional)_: you can create a [binding](https://docs.goauthentik.io/docs/add-secure-apps/flows-stages/bindings/) (policy, group, or user) to manage the listing and access to applications on a user's **My applications** page.
```

3. Click **Submit** to save the new application and provider.

## Komodo configuration

### Setup OIDC connection

> 1. Edit the following environment variables in your Komodo `compose.env` file, or if using a mounted config file, edit your `./komodo/core.config.toml` file:

Reviewer: can we also include an example for the toml config file, then both yaml blocks should be updated to include a fileName attribute

Author: All the attributes are in each file upon download/install. But the attributes that need to be modified have a LOT of comments in between them. So adding those as YAML blocks would take up a bunch of space. 

You can't just append the attributes to the end of the file, you have to edit what they've given you, unless you create all the files from scratch. The resource doc has an example of the config.toml file if you want a look.

> 1. Edit the following environment variables in your Komodo `compose.env` file, or if using a mounted config file, edit your `./komodo/core.config.toml` file:

Reviewer: Is that the default file name used by Komodo? Interesting

```yaml
KOMODO_OIDC_ENABLED=true
KOMODO_OIDC_PROVIDER=https://authentik.company/application/o/authorize

> KOMODO_OIDC_CLIENT_ID=<authentik client ID>

Author: > Didn't we prefer to keep the variable in lowercase and separated by dashes?

@tanberry Do you have a preference?

KOMODO_OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET=<authentik client secret>
```

2. Redeploy Komodo for the changes to take effect.

### User configuration

Komodo doesn't currently have a method to provision OIDC users, therefore OIDC accounts need to be manually enabled after first login. Follow these steps to create and enable OIDC users in Komodo:

1. Log in to Komodo via the OIDC button on the login page.
2. You will be redirected to authentik to login (if you are already logged in, you will be redirected to step 3).
3. You will be redirected back to Komodo, and receive an error message saying "User Not Enabled".

> 4. Log in to Komodo as an administrator.

Reviewer: i'd add a little mention of like logging in with local authentication in case it wasn't clear

> 5. Navigate to **Settings**, and under the **Users** section, click the name of your authentik user. The **User type** should be **OIDC**.

Reviewer: is Settings a button, on a menu? I'd clarify

> 6. Click **Enable User**, and assign the desired pemissions.

Reviewer: What desired permissions should one apply?

## Configuration verification

> To confirm that authentik is properly configured with Komodo, log out and attempt to log back in by clicking the OIDC button. You should be redirected to authentik to login, if successful you will be redirected to the Komodo dashboard.

Reviewer: the **Log in with OIDC** or is it literally named **OIDC**?

Author: Literally OIDC:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8ad904e9-b5c4-4b51-84be-bc5a60981e62)

## Resources

> - [Komodo Advanced Configuration Documentation](https://komo.do/docs/setup/advanced)

Reviewer: I like the new format for references as shown in the ovh pr, what do you think?
